'*Commands' list and help for QTM v1.45          © Steve Harrison, 1993-2013
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The '*Commands' provided by QTM are there to bridge the gap between QTM
desktop interfaces, such as !QTMTrack and !QTMPlay, and the programmer's SWI
interface. All the '*Commands' can be used by pressing f12 and typing them
in, or by putting them in Basic programs.

The commands provided are basically a simpler alternative to the most
commonly used QTM SWIs. Help on all the commands can be given at any time by
typing '*Help QTM.'

These commands are:

   *QTMLoad <filename> [x]

This is probably the most important command, allowing you to load a piece of
music into QTM. Type '*QTMLoad Music' to load the song 'Music' and start it
playing.

If an 'x' is placed after the filename, QTM will load the song, but not
start it playing. This is useful in some demos etc.

   *QTMStart

Use this command to start a song playing, after it has been stopped, paused,
or loaded using the 'x' parameter with *QTMLoad.

   *QTMStop

This command will stop the current song playing and reset the internal
position and song variables, leaving QTM set up at the start of the song, as
if it had just been loaded.

   *QTMPause

Like *QTMStop, this command stops the current song playing, but it will not
reset any internal variables, so the song can be restarted from exactly the
same position, using *QTMStart.

   *QTMClear

This command stops the current song, as with *QTMStop, but also removes the
song from memory, freeing any RMA used to store the song.

   *QTMInfo

This command will display a list of information about the currently loaded
song, such as the name, author, length, etc.

   *QTMSamples

This will list all the samples used in the current song, along with any
unused samples, if they contain a name.

   *QTMVolume [<volume 0-64>]

Use this command, with no parameters, to display the current overall QTM
volume (min 0-64 max). A parameter in the range 0-64 will set the new
overall QTM output level.

   *QTMPos [<position> [x]]

Without any parameters, this command will display the current song position
in the sequence table.

If you specify a song position after the command, the player will jump to
the start of that position.

If you follow a song position by the 'x' parameter, after jumping to the new
position, the player will continue at the same event as it was at in the old
position, rather than starting at the start (event 0) of the new sequence.

   *QTMDisable [<effect number>]

This command has only been provided for advanced users of the module. If an
effect number is specified (range 0-F or E0-EF - for 'E' effects)), the
given effect will be disabled from being playing. Use *QTMEnable to
re-enable the effect again.

If no effect number is specified, a list of the currently disabled effects
is displayed.

   *QTMEnable <effect number>

Use this command to reverse the operation of *QTMDisable, and re-enable the
specified effect.

   *QTMTransparent [On|Off]

Use this to enable/disable the Transparent Sound System (TSS), or with no parameter to show the current state of the TSS. TSS is enabled by default only on RISC OS 5 and later.